README.md, before:

# project-euler-hints-python
My walkthrough style solutions for the first 100 ish problems in ProjectEuler.net.

I haven't found a non-spoilery way to get hints on Project Euler problems so I decided to make one! The steps to
discovering the solution will be "spoiler-tagged" similarly to discord or reddit. It will be in this format:
<details> 
  <summary>How do I make spoiler tags? </summary>
   Try html.
</details>
<details> 
  <summary>I'm still confused. I need another hint! </summary>
   Use the < details > tag and the < summary > tag.
</details>
<details> 
  <summary>Final Solution:</summary>
   Check the code for this document.
</details>


The website asks not to spoil past the first 100 problems, so I will not be doing so (unlike some other people). Also, I 
will not be posting the numerical answers. You have to at least look at the code instead of just copy and pasting the 
answer. Please use this if you ever need a nudge in the right direction on a Project Euler solution!

All solutions are given an earnest attempt by me, although I admit I had to look up a few solutions (not answers, but 
solutions). Additionally, solutions were improved after my original solve after looking at the overviews/forum that unlock 
after solving. This is to ensure I upload the cleanest and most efficient solutions, not just one that works. I am 
uploading this after about a year of working on ProjectEuler.net problems on and off. This means a lot of my progress, 
trial and error, etc. has been lost.

Some of these programs import math, but that's it.

In the future, I plan to add all 100 solutions. I've already finished a lot (but not all) 100 solutions, but I still need 
to rework them, add comments, and put them in the walkthrough format.

Commit message:

Added author's note README.md

README.md, after:

# project-euler-hints-python
My walkthrough style solutions for the first 100 ish problems in ProjectEuler.net.

I haven't found a non-spoilery way to get hints on Project Euler problems so I decided to make one! The steps to
discovering the solution will be "spoiler-tagged" similarly to discord or reddit. It will be in this format:
<details> 
  <summary>How do I make spoiler tags? </summary>
   Try html.
</details>
<details> 
  <summary>I'm still confused. I need another hint! </summary>
   Use the < details > tag and the < summary > tag.
</details>
<details> 
  <summary>Final Solution:</summary>
   Check the code for this document.
</details>


The website asks not to spoil past the first 100 problems, so I will not be doing so (unlike some other people). Also, I 
will not be posting the numerical answers. You have to at least look at the code instead of just copy and pasting the 
answer. Please use this if you ever need a nudge in the right direction on a Project Euler solution!

All solutions are given an earnest attempt by me, although I admit I had to look up a few solutions (not answers, but 
solutions). Additionally, solutions were improved after my original solve after looking at the overviews/forum that unlock 
after solving. This is to ensure I upload the cleanest and most efficient solutions, not just one that works. I am 
uploading this after about a year of working on ProjectEuler.net problems on and off. This means a lot of my progress, 
trial and error, etc. has been lost. Anything about my personal progress will but put in an informal "author's note." For
example:
(AN: Originally this project was intended to be a diary of my PE progress, but I realized I cared a lot about honoring
the wishes of the people who run PE. They clearly care about spoilers, so I wanted to try to give a resource with as little
spoilers as possible. The author's note is a way for me to keep that original purpose.)

Some of these programs import math, but that's it.

In the future, I plan to add all 100 solutions. I've already finished a lot (but not all) 100 solutions, but I still need 
to rework them, add comments, and put them in the walkthrough format. I might even add solutions past 100 if I get to them.
