## [The Problem:](https://projecteuler.net/problem=1)

<p>If we list all the natural numbers below $10$ that are multiples of $3$ or $5$, we get $3, 5, 6$ and $9$. The sum of these multiples is $23$.</p>
<p>Find the sum of all the multiples of $3$ or $5$ below $1000$.</p>

## Brute Force Solution:

<details>
    <summary>
        How do I get started?
    </summary>
        The problem asks you to list the natural numbers below 1000. How does one do that in Python? <br><br>
        Then, how do you check if something is a multiple of 3 or 5? <br><br>
        Finally, how do you get a total that increases for each multiple of 3 or 5?
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        I don't know the answers.
    </summary>
        Use a for loop for i in range(0, 1000) <br><br>
        Then, use the mod operator (%). If x mod 3 (aka x % 3) == 0, then x is divisible by 3. <br><br>
        Finally, use total = 0 and total += x to keep a running total.
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        Final Solution (hk in Project Euler Overview):
    </summary>
        <code>total = 0
for x in range(0,1000):
    if x % 3 == 0 or x % 5 == 0:
        total += x
print(total)</code><br><br>
    Runtime: 0.0002 seconds <br>
    Runtime when upper limit is 1 billion: 90 seconds <br><br>
    (AN: My first version was even worse than this! I used if x % 3 == 0:... elif x % 5 == 0:...)
</details>

## Nice Solution:
<details>
    <summary>
        How do I make this more efficient, especially for numbers greater than 1000?
    </summary>
        Notice that adding the multiples of 3 OR 5 is the same as adding the multiples of 3, the multiples of 5, and subtracting the multiples of 3 AND 5. <br><br>
        That's basically doing the same function 3 times. We need one function that adds multiples of x under 1000.
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        Okay, but how do I make that more efficient?
    </summary>
        The equation for the sums of the multiples of 3 is 3 + 6 + 9 +...+ 999 = ??? <br><br>
        How do we simplify that?
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        I still don't get it!
    </summary>
        3 + 6 + 9 +...+ 999 = 3 * (1 + 2 + 3 +...+ 333) <br><br>
        Sums like 1 + 2 + 3 +... are called the triangle numbers. Look them up! There's an equation for them: n * (n + 1) / 2.
        To find n, we need to divide 1000 by the factor, in this case, 3. 
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        So what's the function in code form? (Project Euler)
    </summary>
        <code>def sum_of_multiples(factor, upper_limit):
    n = upper_limit // factor
    print(n)
    return x * n * (n + 1) / 2
#
print(sum_of_multiples(3, 999) + sum_of_multiples(5, 999) + sum_of_multiples(15, 999)</code><br><br>
    Runtime: 0.00002 seconds (10 times faster than the previous solution)<br>
    Runtime when upper limit is 1 billion: 0.00002 seconds (Runs in O(1) time!)
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        But can we make it better?
    </summary>
        There is a bit of complexity in the final print line. I decided to add another function so that only one function is called in the print line. 
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        Final Solution (The Author):
    </summary>
        <code>def sum_of_multiples(factor, upper_limit):
    n = upper_limit // factor
    return factor * n * (n + 1) / 2
#
def sum_of_two_multiples(factor1, factor2, upper_limit):
    return sum_of_multiples(factor1, upper_limit) + sum_of_multiples(factor2, upper_limit) - sum_of_multiples(factor1 * factor2, upper_limit)
#
print(sum_of_two_multiples(3, 5, 999))</code><br><br>
    Runtime: 0.00002 seconds <br>
    Runtime when upper limit is 1 billion: 0.00002 seconds
</details>

