<cite
      ><a href="https://projecteuler.net/problem=2"
        >PROBLEM:</a
      ></cite
    >


<p>Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with $1$ and $2$, the first $10$ terms will be:
$$1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, \dots$$</p>
<p>By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.</p>

BRUTE FORCE SOLUTION:

<details>
    <summary>
        How do I get started?
    </summary>
        Look up the Fibonacci sequence. <br>
        What variables you would need to program it? <br>
        Then, what kind of structure should the program should have if it needs to keep generating Fibonacci numbers until they exceed 4 million? <br>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        I don't know the answers.
    </summary>
        The Fibonacci sequence can be described as a function F where F(n - 2) + F(n - 1) = F(n). n is the nth term of the sequence, and the initial values are F(1) = 1 and F(2) = 1.<br>
        You need three variables. We can call them x, y, and z. <br>
        Then, we can use a while loop to check if z has exceeded 4 million.
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        Final Solution (Project Euler):
    </summary>
        <code>x = 1
y = 1
z = 2
total = 0
while z < 4000000:
  if z % 2 == 0:
    total += z
  x = y
  y = z
  z = x + y
print(total)</code><br><br>
    Runtime: 0.00002<br>
    Runtime for first million Fibonacci numbers: 60 seconds <br>
    (AN: To get the longer runtime, I replaced the while z < 4000000 with while i < 1000000. I added a declaration i = 0 before the while loop and an i += 1 incrementor inside the loop.)
</details>
    
NICE SOLUTION:

<details>
    <summary>
        But can we make it faster?
    </summary>
        Write down (or look up) the Fibonacci sequence. Are there any patterns you notice?
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        I found it! (The Author)
    </summary>
        You probably found that every third Fibonacci number is even. If you're like me, you used this information to write something like this:<br>
    <code>x = 1
y = 1
z = x + y
total = 0
i = 0
while z < 4000000:
  if i % 3 == 0:
    total += z
  x = y
  y = z
  z = x + y
  i += 1</code><br><br>
    Runtime: 0.00001 <br>
    Runtime for first million Fibonacci numbers: 4 seconds
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        But are you sure you found everything there is to find? (Project Euler)
    </summary>
        First, that code to sum every third Fibonacci number can be written like this, not using the if i % 3 == 0 check:<br>
    <code>x = 1
y = 1
z = x + y
total = 0
while z < 4000000:
  total += z
  x = y + z
  y = z + x
  z = x + y</code><br><br>
    Runtime: 0.000007 <br>
    Runtime for first million Fibonacci numbers: 145 seconds <br>
    (AN: No idea why this is so slow! I triple checked that this program is doing what it's supposed to. I don't know how it went from the fastest program to the slowest.)<br>
    Additionally, there is another pattern to the even Fibonacci numbers. You can show that for the sequence of even Fibonacci numbers E, E(n) = 4 * E(n - 1) + E(n - 2). Proving that is beyond the scope of this walkthrough, but proofs are avaliable online by searching "even fibonacci numbers." 
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        Final Solution (Project Euler):
    </summary>
    <code>x = 0
y = 2
z = 0
total = 2
while z < 4000000:
    total = total + z
    z = 4 * y + x
    x = y
    y = z
print(total)</code><br><br>
    Runtime: 0.000015 <br>
    Runtime for first million Fibonacci numbers: 130 seconds <br>
    (AN: Again, no idea why this is so slow. I guess sometimes the non-mathy solution is the best one.)
</details>
