## [The Problem:](https://projecteuler.net/problem=6)

<p>The sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers is,</p>
<p>$$1^2 + 2^2 + ... + 10^2 = 385.$$</p>
<p>The square of the sum of the first ten natural numbers is,</p>
<p>$$(1 + 2 + ... + 10)^2 = 55^2 = 3025.$$</p>
<p>Hence the difference between the sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers and the square of the sum is $3025 - 385 = 2640$.</p>
<p>Find the difference between the sum of the squares of the first one hundred natural numbers and the square of the sum.</p>

## Brute Force Solution:

<details>
    <summary>
        How do I get started?
    </summary>
    Make a for loop for the first 100 numbers. In the loop, Have a running total of the sums and the sums of their squares. After the for loop, square the first sum and print the difference. 
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
        Final Solution (The Author):
    </summary>
  <code>sum_of_squares = 0
sum_to_be_squared = 0
#
for i in range(0,101):
    sum_of_squares += i ** 2
    sum_to_be_squared += i
#
print(sum_to_be_squared ** 2 - sum_of_squares)</code><br><br>
Runtime: 0.00002 seconds<br>
Runtime when adding up to 1 million: 0.12 seconds
</details>

## Nice Solution:

<details>
    <summary>
      How do I make this more efficient?
    </summary>
          The way to sum numbers 1 to n was covered in Problem 1. Look up "triangle numbers."<br><br>
        There is another equation for the sums of squares. There is no name for them like the "triangle numbers," but you can look it up as "sums of squares of n natural numbers." The Project Euler overview goes into how to derive this yourself. There are also other derivations on <cite
      ><a href="https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/48080/sum-of-first-n-squares-equals-fracnn12n16"
        >Math Stack Exchange.</a></cite>
  Some hints on how to derive it yourself if you choose:<br><br>
          1. Realize the triangle numbers are called that because that is a way to count the number of objects arrange in an equilateral triangle. What is the 3d equivalent to that? <br><br>
          2. A way of deriving the triangle numbers is to arrange objects in a right isoceles triangle. This is similar to cutting a square in half diagonally. So, it is logical that the formula includes a square and dividing in half. What is the 3d equivalent to that?<br><br>
          3. The exact formula doesn't have to be known. Once you have the basic structure, you can put in variables where the unknowns are. Then, solve for the variables using the sums of squares that can be easily calculated by hand.
</details>

<details>
    <summary>
      Final Solution:
    </summary><code>upper_limit = 100
#
sum_of_squares = (2 * upper_limit + 1) * (upper_limit + 1) * upper_limit / 6
sum_to_be_squared = (upper_limit + 1) * upper_limit / 2
#
print(sum_to_be_squared ** 2 - sum_of_squares)</code><br><br>
Runtime: 0.00002 seconds<br>
Runtime when adding up to 1 million: 0.00002 seconds (Runs in O(1) time!)
</details>
